Condescend - (Verb) show feelings of superiority; be patronizing.
Audacity - (Nout) धृष्टता, साहस, The willingness to take bold risks.
loggerheads - Aapas me bhidna, मूर्ख
compel- force  (someone) to do something, विवश करना
compulsion - मजबूरी, बाध्यता, the action or state of forcing or being forced to do something; constraint.
seculer - धर्म निरपेक्ष
comprehensive -  complete; including all or nearly all elements or aspects of something.
obsolete - no longer produced or used; out of date.
complicit - involved with others in an activity that is unlawful or morally wrong.
radicalisation - कट्टरता
abstractly - संक्षेप में
perspire - give out sweat through the pores of the skin as the result of heat, physical exertion or stress.(पसीना निकालना)
Susceptible- अतिसंवेदनशील (Emotional).
Postulate - मांगना, स्वयं सिद्ध मान लेना  (a thing suggested or assumed as true as the basis for reasoning, discussion, or belief)
A statistical test procedure is comparable to a criminal trial; a defendant is considered not guilty as long as his or her guilt is not proven. The prosecutor tries to prove the guilt of the defendant. Only when there is enough evidence for the prosecution is the defendant convicted.
conviction - दोषसिद्धि, धारणा.
acquitting - बरी कर दिया, free (someone) from a criminal charge by a verdict of not guilty
defendant  - अभियुक्त, an individual, company, or institution sued or accused in a court of law.
absurd - बेतुका, विवेकहीन, (of an idea or suggestion) wildly unreasonable, illogical, or inappropriate.
stumble - ठोकर, भूल, trip or momentarily lose one's balance; almost fall.
absurd - बेतुका, विवेकहीन, (of an idea or suggestion) wildly unreasonable, illogical, or inappropriate.
Hindsight - बाद में समझ आना
Sap - (Verb) शक्तिहीन करना.
           (Noun) मूर्ख "He fell for it! What a sap!" , पौधों का रस.
Smolder -  (Verb) सुलगना, burn slowly with smoke but no flame.  
                    (Noun)  दम घोंटनेवाला धुआँsmoke coming from a fire that is burning slowly without a flame.
Concussion -  (Noun) temporary unconsciousness caused by a blow to the head. 
	      The term is also used loosely of the aftereffects such as confusion or temporary incapacity.
smothering - गला घोंटना (verb) 
intimacy - मित्रता, close familiarity or friendship; closeness.
conveive- गर्भ धारण, विचार करना
Perpetual- (Adjective) लगातार, निरंतर, never ending or changing.
Recursive - (Adjective) पुनरावर्ती
Cranky - (Adjective) सनकी, ill-tempered; irritable.
Contingency - (Noun) आकस्मिकता, अनिश्चित घटना,  a future event or circumstance that is possible but cannot be predicted with certainty.
Compulsion - (Noun) मजबूरी.
Compel - (Verb) मजबूर करना.
Intricate - (Adjective) जटिल, very complicated or detailed.
Intricacy - (Noun) जटिलता.
Provident - (Adjective) दूरदर्शी, अग्रदर्शी
Intuitive - (Adjective) using or based on what one feels to be true even without conscious reasoning; instinctive
Inherently -स्वाभाविक
Instinct - (Adjective) स्वाभाविक.
                  (Noun) स्वाभाविक बुद्धि.
Loathe - (Verb) घृणा करना.
Loathsome - (Adjective) घृणित, disgusting.
Exaggerate - (Verb) विस्तृत रूप से वर्णन करना, अतिशयोक्ति करना
                          represent (something) as being larger, greater, better, or worse than it really is.   
Fidelity - (Noun) सत्य के प्रति निष्ठा, स्वामिभक्ति, वफादारी
                   faithfulness to a person, cause, or belief, demonstrated by continuing loyalty and support. 
Monogamy - (Noun) एक ही बार विवाह करने की प्रथा
                           the practice or state of being married to one person at a time. 
Ripple - (Noun) लहर, a small wave or series of waves on the surface of water, especially as caused by an object dropping into it or a slight breeze.
                  (Verb) छोटी लहर, (of water) form or flow with small waves on the surface.
Cogent - (Adjective) ठोस, (of an argument or case) clear, logical, and convincing.
Entails - (Verb) जरूरत पर जोर देता
	 
Priori - 
Analogy - (Noun) समानता, अनुरूपता

Broach - सीख, विषय छेड़ना
Succinct - संक्षिप्त
Ramble - घूमना, भटकते फिरना (walk for pleasure, typically without a definite route)
Dissertation - निबंध (a long essay on a particular subject)
regurgitating - bring (swallowed food) up again to the mouth
pique - मनमुटाव, stimulate (interest or curiosity)
intrigue - साज़िश, (a mysterious or fascinating quality),
Spiel - बकना, कहानी
Cask - पीपा (a large barrellike container made of wood, metal, or plastic, used for storing liquids, typically alcoholic drinks.)
Peculiarity - (Noun) ख़ासियत, विशेषता, an odd or unusual feature or habit.
Complicit - (Adjective), involved with others in an illegal activity or wrongdoing.
Relic - (Noun), अवशेष,निशानी, an object surviving from an earlier time, especially one of historical or sentimental interest		
Fret - (Noun), झल्लाहट, कुढ़ना
Spade - (Noun), कुदाल, फावड़ा
Substantial - (Adjective), पर्याप्त, ठोस, of considerable importance, size, or worth.
Conjecture - (Noun), अनुमान, form an opinion or supposition about (something) on the basis of incomplete information.
Fumble - (Verb), टटोलना, use the hands clumsily while doing or handling something.
Stumble - (Noun), ठोकर, trip or momentarily lose one's balance; almost fall.
Competent - (Adjective), सक्षम, capable
Paradigm - (Noun), उदाहरण, मिसाल, a typical example or pattern of something; a model.
Realm - (Noun), क्षेत्र, राज्य, देश, a kingdom.
Abscond - (Verb), भाग जाना, फ़रार होना
Fiendish - (Adjective), पैशाचिक, नीच.
